docs/reference/pages/model_reference.rst, before:

===============
Model Reference
===============

.. automodule:: wagtail.wagtailcore.models

This document contains reference information for the model classes inside the ``wagtailcore`` module.

.. _page-model-ref:

``Page``
========

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Page

    .. attribute:: title

        (text)

        Human-readable title of the page.

    .. attribute:: slug

        (text)

        This is used for constructing the page's URL.

        For example: ``http://domain.com/blog/[my-slug]/``

    .. attribute:: content_type

        (foreign key to ``django.contrib.contenttypes.models.ContentType``)

        A foreign key to the :class:`~django.contrib.contenttypes.models.ContentType` object that represents the specific model of this page.

    .. attribute:: live

        (boolean)

        A boolean that is set to ``True`` if the page is published.

        Note: this field defaults to ``True`` meaning that any pages that are created programmatically will be published by default.

    .. attribute:: has_unpublished_changes

        (boolean)

        A boolean that is set to ``True`` when the page is either in draft or published with draft changes.

    .. attribute:: owner

        (foreign key to user model)

        A foreign key to the user that created the page.

    .. attribute:: first_published_at

        (date/time)

        The date/time when the page was first published.

    .. attribute:: last_published_at

        (date/time)

        The date/time when the page was last published.

    .. attribute:: seo_title

        (text)

        Alternate SEO-crafted title, for use in the page's ``<title>`` HTML tag.

    .. attribute:: search_description

        (text)

        SEO-crafted description of the content, used for search indexing. This is also suitable for the page's ``<meta name="description">`` HTML tag.

    .. attribute:: show_in_menus

        (boolean)

        Toggles whether the page should be included in site-wide menus.

        This is used by the :meth:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.query.PageQuerySet.in_menu` QuerySet filter.

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to the model fields provided, ``Page`` has many properties and methods that you may wish to reference, use, or override in creating your own models.

.. class:: Page

    .. autoattribute:: specific

    .. autoattribute:: specific_class

    .. autoattribute:: url

    .. autoattribute:: full_url

    .. automethod:: relative_url

    .. automethod:: get_site

    .. automethod:: get_url_parts

    .. automethod:: route

    .. automethod:: serve

    .. automethod:: get_context

    .. automethod:: get_template

    .. automethod:: get_admin_display_title

    .. autoattribute:: preview_modes

    .. automethod:: serve_preview

    .. automethod:: get_parent

    .. automethod:: get_ancestors

    .. automethod:: get_descendants

    .. automethod:: get_siblings

    .. attribute:: search_fields

        A list of fields to be indexed by the search engine. See Search docs :ref:`wagtailsearch_indexing_fields`

    .. attribute:: subpage_types

        A whitelist of page models which can be created as children of this page type. For example, a ``BlogIndex`` page might allow a ``BlogPage`` as a child, but not a ``JobPage``:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogIndex(Page):
                subpage_types = ['mysite.BlogPage', 'mysite.BlogArchivePage']

        The creation of child pages can be blocked altogether for a given page by setting it's subpage_types attribute to an empty array:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogPage(Page):
                subpage_types = []

    .. attribute:: parent_page_types

        A whitelist of page models which are allowed as parent page types. For example, a ``BlogPage`` may only allow itself to be created below the ``BlogIndex`` page:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogPage(Page):
                parent_page_types = ['mysite.BlogIndexPage']

        Pages can block themselves from being created at all by setting parent_page_types to an empty array (this is useful for creating unique pages that should only be created once):

        .. code-block:: python

            class HiddenPage(Page):
                parent_page_types = []

    .. automethod:: can_exist_under

    .. automethod:: can_create_at

    .. automethod:: can_move_to

    .. attribute:: password_required_template

        Defines which template file should be used to render the login form for Protected pages using this model. This overrides the default, defined using ``PASSWORD_REQUIRED_TEMPLATE`` in your settings. See :ref:`private_pages`

    .. attribute:: is_creatable

        Controls if this page can be created through the Wagtail administration. Defaults to True, and is not inherited by subclasses. This is useful when using `multi-table inheritance <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/topics/db/models/#multi-table-inheritance>`_, to stop the base model from being created as an actual page.

    .. attribute:: base_form_class

        The form class used as a base for editing Pages of this type in the Wagtail page editor.
        This attribute can be set on a model to customise the Page editor form.
        Forms must be a subclass of :class:`~wagtail.wagtailadmin.forms.WagtailAdminPageForm`.
        See :ref:`custom_edit_handler_forms` for more information.

.. _site-model-ref:

``Site``
========

The ``Site`` model is useful for multi-site installations as it allows an administrator to configure which part of the tree to use for each hostname that the server responds on.

This configuration is used by the :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.middleware.SiteMiddleware` middleware class which checks each request against this configuration and appends the Site object to the Django request object.

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Site

    .. attribute:: hostname

        (text)

        This is the hostname of the site, excluding the scheme, port and path.

        For example: ``www.mysite.com``

        .. note::

            If you're looking for how to get the root url of a site, use the :attr:`~Site.root_url` attribute.

    .. attribute:: port

        (number)

        This is the port number that the site responds on.

    .. attribute:: site_name

        (text - optional)

        A human-readable name for the site. This is not used by Wagtail itself, but is suitable for use on the site front-end, such as in ``<title>`` elements.

        For example: ``Rod's World of Birds``

    .. attribute:: root_page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

        This is a link to the root page of the site. This page will be what appears at the ``/`` URL on the site and would usually be a homepage.

    .. attribute:: is_default_site

        (boolean)

        This is set to ``True`` if the site is the default. Only one site can be the default.

        The default site is used as a fallback in situations where a site with the required hostname/port couldn't be found.

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Site

    .. automethod:: find_for_request

    .. autoattribute:: root_url

        This returns the URL of the site. It is calculated from the :attr:`~Site.hostname` and the :attr:`~Site.port` fields.

        The scheme part of the URL is calculated based on value of the :attr:`~Site.port` field:

         - 80 = ``http://``
         - 443 = ``https://``
         - Everything else will use the ``http://`` scheme and the port will be appended to the end of the hostname (eg. ``http://mysite.com:8000/``)

    .. automethod:: get_site_root_paths

.. _page-revision-model-ref:

``PageRevision``
================

Every time a page is edited a new ``PageRevision`` is created and saved to the database. It can be used to find the full history of all changes that have been made to a page and it also provides a place for new changes to be kept before going live.

 - Revisions can be created from any :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` object by calling its :meth:`~Page.save_revision` method
 - The content of the page is JSON-serialised and stored in the :attr:`~PageRevision.content_json` field
 - You can retrieve a ``PageRevision`` as a :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` object by calling the :meth:`~PageRevision.as_page_object` method

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: submitted_for_moderation

        (boolean)

        ``True`` if this revision is in moderation

    .. attribute:: created_at

        (date/time)

        This is the time the revision was created

    .. attribute:: user

        (foreign key to user model)

        This links to the user that created the revision

    .. attribute:: content_json

        (text)

        This field contains the JSON content for the page at the time the revision was created

Managers
~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. attribute:: objects

        This manager is used to retrieve all of the ``PageRevision`` objects in the database

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            PageRevision.objects.all()

    .. attribute:: submitted_revisions

        This manager is used to retrieve all of the ``PageRevision`` objects that are awaiting moderator approval

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            PageRevision.submitted_revisions.all()

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. automethod:: as_page_object

        This method retrieves this revision as an instance of its :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` subclass.

    .. automethod:: approve_moderation

        Calling this on a revision that's in moderation will mark it as approved and publish it

    .. automethod:: reject_moderation

        Calling this on a revision that's in moderation will mark it as rejected

    .. automethod:: is_latest_revision

        Returns ``True`` if this revision is its page's latest revision

    .. automethod:: publish

        Calling this will copy the content of this revision into the live page object. If the page is in draft, it will be published.

``GroupPagePermission``
=======================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: GroupPagePermission

    .. attribute:: group

        (foreign key to ``django.contrib.auth.models.Group``)

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: permission_type

        (choice list)

``PageViewRestriction``
=======================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageViewRestriction

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: password

        (text)

``Orderable`` (abstract)
========================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Orderable

    .. attribute:: sort_order

        (number)

Commit message:

allow default for show_in_menus

docs/reference/pages/model_reference.rst, after:

===============
Model Reference
===============

.. automodule:: wagtail.wagtailcore.models

This document contains reference information for the model classes inside the ``wagtailcore`` module.

.. _page-model-ref:

``Page``
========

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Page

    .. attribute:: title

        (text)

        Human-readable title of the page.

    .. attribute:: slug

        (text)

        This is used for constructing the page's URL.

        For example: ``http://domain.com/blog/[my-slug]/``

    .. attribute:: content_type

        (foreign key to ``django.contrib.contenttypes.models.ContentType``)

        A foreign key to the :class:`~django.contrib.contenttypes.models.ContentType` object that represents the specific model of this page.

    .. attribute:: live

        (boolean)

        A boolean that is set to ``True`` if the page is published.

        Note: this field defaults to ``True`` meaning that any pages that are created programmatically will be published by default.

    .. attribute:: has_unpublished_changes

        (boolean)

        A boolean that is set to ``True`` when the page is either in draft or published with draft changes.

    .. attribute:: owner

        (foreign key to user model)

        A foreign key to the user that created the page.

    .. attribute:: first_published_at

        (date/time)

        The date/time when the page was first published.

    .. attribute:: last_published_at

        (date/time)

        The date/time when the page was last published.

    .. attribute:: seo_title

        (text)

        Alternate SEO-crafted title, for use in the page's ``<title>`` HTML tag.

    .. attribute:: search_description

        (text)

        SEO-crafted description of the content, used for search indexing. This is also suitable for the page's ``<meta name="description">`` HTML tag.

    .. attribute:: show_in_menus

        (boolean)

        Toggles whether the page should be included in site-wide menus.

        Defaults to ``False`` and can be overridden on the model with ``show_in_menus_default = True``.

        This is used by the :meth:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.query.PageQuerySet.in_menu` QuerySet filter.

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In addition to the model fields provided, ``Page`` has many properties and methods that you may wish to reference, use, or override in creating your own models.

.. class:: Page

    .. autoattribute:: specific

    .. autoattribute:: specific_class

    .. autoattribute:: url

    .. autoattribute:: full_url

    .. automethod:: relative_url

    .. automethod:: get_site

    .. automethod:: get_url_parts

    .. automethod:: route

    .. automethod:: serve

    .. automethod:: get_context

    .. automethod:: get_template

    .. automethod:: get_admin_display_title

    .. autoattribute:: preview_modes

    .. automethod:: serve_preview

    .. automethod:: get_parent

    .. automethod:: get_ancestors

    .. automethod:: get_descendants

    .. automethod:: get_siblings

    .. attribute:: search_fields

        A list of fields to be indexed by the search engine. See Search docs :ref:`wagtailsearch_indexing_fields`

    .. attribute:: subpage_types

        A whitelist of page models which can be created as children of this page type. For example, a ``BlogIndex`` page might allow a ``BlogPage`` as a child, but not a ``JobPage``:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogIndex(Page):
                subpage_types = ['mysite.BlogPage', 'mysite.BlogArchivePage']

        The creation of child pages can be blocked altogether for a given page by setting it's subpage_types attribute to an empty array:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogPage(Page):
                subpage_types = []

    .. attribute:: parent_page_types

        A whitelist of page models which are allowed as parent page types. For example, a ``BlogPage`` may only allow itself to be created below the ``BlogIndex`` page:

        .. code-block:: python

            class BlogPage(Page):
                parent_page_types = ['mysite.BlogIndexPage']

        Pages can block themselves from being created at all by setting parent_page_types to an empty array (this is useful for creating unique pages that should only be created once):

        .. code-block:: python

            class HiddenPage(Page):
                parent_page_types = []

    .. automethod:: can_exist_under

    .. automethod:: can_create_at

    .. automethod:: can_move_to

    .. attribute:: password_required_template

        Defines which template file should be used to render the login form for Protected pages using this model. This overrides the default, defined using ``PASSWORD_REQUIRED_TEMPLATE`` in your settings. See :ref:`private_pages`

    .. attribute:: is_creatable

        Controls if this page can be created through the Wagtail administration. Defaults to True, and is not inherited by subclasses. This is useful when using `multi-table inheritance <https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.8/topics/db/models/#multi-table-inheritance>`_, to stop the base model from being created as an actual page.

    .. attribute:: base_form_class

        The form class used as a base for editing Pages of this type in the Wagtail page editor.
        This attribute can be set on a model to customise the Page editor form.
        Forms must be a subclass of :class:`~wagtail.wagtailadmin.forms.WagtailAdminPageForm`.
        See :ref:`custom_edit_handler_forms` for more information.

.. _site-model-ref:

``Site``
========

The ``Site`` model is useful for multi-site installations as it allows an administrator to configure which part of the tree to use for each hostname that the server responds on.

This configuration is used by the :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.middleware.SiteMiddleware` middleware class which checks each request against this configuration and appends the Site object to the Django request object.

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Site

    .. attribute:: hostname

        (text)

        This is the hostname of the site, excluding the scheme, port and path.

        For example: ``www.mysite.com``

        .. note::

            If you're looking for how to get the root url of a site, use the :attr:`~Site.root_url` attribute.

    .. attribute:: port

        (number)

        This is the port number that the site responds on.

    .. attribute:: site_name

        (text - optional)

        A human-readable name for the site. This is not used by Wagtail itself, but is suitable for use on the site front-end, such as in ``<title>`` elements.

        For example: ``Rod's World of Birds``

    .. attribute:: root_page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

        This is a link to the root page of the site. This page will be what appears at the ``/`` URL on the site and would usually be a homepage.

    .. attribute:: is_default_site

        (boolean)

        This is set to ``True`` if the site is the default. Only one site can be the default.

        The default site is used as a fallback in situations where a site with the required hostname/port couldn't be found.

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Site

    .. automethod:: find_for_request

    .. autoattribute:: root_url

        This returns the URL of the site. It is calculated from the :attr:`~Site.hostname` and the :attr:`~Site.port` fields.

        The scheme part of the URL is calculated based on value of the :attr:`~Site.port` field:

         - 80 = ``http://``
         - 443 = ``https://``
         - Everything else will use the ``http://`` scheme and the port will be appended to the end of the hostname (eg. ``http://mysite.com:8000/``)

    .. automethod:: get_site_root_paths

.. _page-revision-model-ref:

``PageRevision``
================

Every time a page is edited a new ``PageRevision`` is created and saved to the database. It can be used to find the full history of all changes that have been made to a page and it also provides a place for new changes to be kept before going live.

 - Revisions can be created from any :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` object by calling its :meth:`~Page.save_revision` method
 - The content of the page is JSON-serialised and stored in the :attr:`~PageRevision.content_json` field
 - You can retrieve a ``PageRevision`` as a :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` object by calling the :meth:`~PageRevision.as_page_object` method

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: submitted_for_moderation

        (boolean)

        ``True`` if this revision is in moderation

    .. attribute:: created_at

        (date/time)

        This is the time the revision was created

    .. attribute:: user

        (foreign key to user model)

        This links to the user that created the revision

    .. attribute:: content_json

        (text)

        This field contains the JSON content for the page at the time the revision was created

Managers
~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. attribute:: objects

        This manager is used to retrieve all of the ``PageRevision`` objects in the database

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            PageRevision.objects.all()

    .. attribute:: submitted_revisions

        This manager is used to retrieve all of the ``PageRevision`` objects that are awaiting moderator approval

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            PageRevision.submitted_revisions.all()

Methods and properties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageRevision

    .. automethod:: as_page_object

        This method retrieves this revision as an instance of its :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page` subclass.

    .. automethod:: approve_moderation

        Calling this on a revision that's in moderation will mark it as approved and publish it

    .. automethod:: reject_moderation

        Calling this on a revision that's in moderation will mark it as rejected

    .. automethod:: is_latest_revision

        Returns ``True`` if this revision is its page's latest revision

    .. automethod:: publish

        Calling this will copy the content of this revision into the live page object. If the page is in draft, it will be published.

``GroupPagePermission``
=======================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: GroupPagePermission

    .. attribute:: group

        (foreign key to ``django.contrib.auth.models.Group``)

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: permission_type

        (choice list)

``PageViewRestriction``
=======================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: PageViewRestriction

    .. attribute:: page

        (foreign key to :class:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`)

    .. attribute:: password

        (text)

``Orderable`` (abstract)
========================

Database fields
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. class:: Orderable

    .. attribute:: sort_order

        (number)
