README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/wagtail/wagtail.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/wagtail/wagtail
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/wagtail.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wagtail/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wagtail.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wagtail/
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/torchbox/wagtail/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/torchbox/wagtail?branch=master

Wagtail CMS
===========

Wagtail is a content management system built on Django. It's focused on user experience,
and offers precise control for designers and developers.

.. image:: http://i.imgur.com/U5MDa0l.jpg
   :width: 728 px

Features
~~~~~~~~

* A fast, attractive interface for authors and editors
* Complete control over design with standard Django templates
* Configure content types through standard Django models
* Fast out of the box. Cache-friendly if you need it
* Tightly integrated search
* Strong document and image management
* Wide support for embedded content
* Straightforward integration with existing Django apps
* Simple, configurable permissions
* Workflow support
* An extensible `form builder <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/reference/contrib/forms.html>`_
* Multi-site and multi-language support
* Optional `static site generation <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/reference/contrib/staticsitegen.html>`_
* Excellent `test coverage <https://coveralls.io/r/torchbox/wagtail?branch=master>`_

Find out more at `wagtail.io <http://wagtail.io/>`_.

Getting started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install wagtail
    wagtail start mysite
    cd mysite
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py createsuperuser
    python manage.py runserver

then sign in at http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

For detailed installation and setup docs, see `docs.wagtail.io <http://docs.wagtail.io/>`_.

Who's using it?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`madewithwagtail.org <http://madewithwagtail.org>`_ lists some of the public Wagtail sites we know about; please `add your own <http://madewithwagtail.org/submit/>`_.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`docs.wagtail.io <http://docs.wagtail.io/>`_ is the full reference for Wagtail, and includes guides for developers, designers and editors, alongside release notes and our roadmap.

Community Support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ask your questions on our `Wagtail support group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wagtail>`_.

Commercial Support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wagtail is sponsored by `Torchbox <https://torchbox.com/>`_. If you need help implementing or hosting Wagtail, please contact us: hello@torchbox.com.

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wagtail supports Django 1.8.1+ on Python 2.7, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5. Supported database backends are PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite.

Contributing
~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you're a Python or Django developer, fork the repo and get stuck in! We run a separate group for developers of Wagtail itself at https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wagtail-developers (please note that this is not for support requests).

You might like to start by reviewing the `contributing guidelines <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/contributing/index.html>`_ and checking issues with the `difficulty:Easy <https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/labels/difficulty%3AEasy>`_ label.

We also welcome translations for Wagtail's interface. Translation work should be submitted through `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/wagtail/>`_.

Commit message:

Point people to Stack Overflow for support queries in preference to the Google group
We plan to put additional resources into support on Stack Overflow, based on feedback at https://twitter.com/WagtailCMS/status/801384753589080064

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://api.travis-ci.org/wagtail/wagtail.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/wagtail/wagtail
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/wagtail.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wagtail/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/wagtail.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wagtail/
.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/torchbox/wagtail/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/r/torchbox/wagtail?branch=master

Wagtail CMS
===========

Wagtail is a content management system built on Django. It's focused on user experience,
and offers precise control for designers and developers.

.. image:: http://i.imgur.com/U5MDa0l.jpg
   :width: 728 px

Features
~~~~~~~~

* A fast, attractive interface for authors and editors
* Complete control over design with standard Django templates
* Configure content types through standard Django models
* Fast out of the box. Cache-friendly if you need it
* Tightly integrated search
* Strong document and image management
* Wide support for embedded content
* Straightforward integration with existing Django apps
* Simple, configurable permissions
* Workflow support
* An extensible `form builder <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/reference/contrib/forms.html>`_
* Multi-site and multi-language support
* Optional `static site generation <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/reference/contrib/staticsitegen.html>`_
* Excellent `test coverage <https://coveralls.io/r/torchbox/wagtail?branch=master>`_

Find out more at `wagtail.io <http://wagtail.io/>`_.

Getting started
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

    pip install wagtail
    wagtail start mysite
    cd mysite
    python manage.py migrate
    python manage.py createsuperuser
    python manage.py runserver

then sign in at http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/

For detailed installation and setup docs, see `docs.wagtail.io <http://docs.wagtail.io/>`_.

Who's using it?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`madewithwagtail.org <http://madewithwagtail.org>`_ lists some of the public Wagtail sites we know about; please `add your own <http://madewithwagtail.org/submit/>`_.

Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
`docs.wagtail.io <http://docs.wagtail.io/>`_ is the full reference for Wagtail, and includes guides for developers, designers and editors, alongside release notes and our roadmap.

Community Support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There is an active community of Wagtail users and developers responding to questions on `Stack Overflow <http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/wagtail>`_. When posting questions, please read Stack Overflow's advice on `how to ask questions <http://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask>`_ and remember to tag your question with "wagtail".

For topics and discussions that do not fit Stack Overflow's question-and-answer format, there is also a `Wagtail Support mailing list <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wagtail>`_.

Commercial Support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wagtail is sponsored by `Torchbox <https://torchbox.com/>`_. If you need help implementing or hosting Wagtail, please contact us: hello@torchbox.com.

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wagtail supports Django 1.8.1+ on Python 2.7, 3.3, 3.4 and 3.5. Supported database backends are PostgreSQL, MySQL and SQLite.

Contributing
~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you're a Python or Django developer, fork the repo and get stuck in! We run a separate group for developers of Wagtail itself at https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wagtail-developers (please note that this is not for support requests).

You might like to start by reviewing the `contributing guidelines <http://docs.wagtail.io/en/latest/contributing/index.html>`_ and checking issues with the `difficulty:Easy <https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/labels/difficulty%3AEasy>`_ label.

We also welcome translations for Wagtail's interface. Translation work should be submitted through `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/projects/p/wagtail/>`_.
