docs/reference/contrib/routablepage.rst, before:

.. _routable_page_mixin:

=====================
``RoutablePageMixin``
=====================

.. module:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage

The ``RoutablePageMixin`` mixin provides a convenient way for a page to respond on multiple sub-URLs with different views. For example, a blog section on a site might provide several different types of index page at URLs like ``/blog/2013/06/``, ``/blog/authors/bob/``, ``/blog/tagged/python/``, all served by the same page instance.

A ``Page`` using ``RoutablePageMixin`` exists within the page tree like any other page, but URL paths underneath it are checked against a list of patterns. If none of the patterns match, control is passed to subpages as usual (or failing that, a 404 error is thrown).


The basics
==========

To use ``RoutablePageMixin``, you need to make your class inherit from both :class:`wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models.RoutablePageMixin` and :class:`wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`, then define some view methods and decorate them with ``wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models.route``.

Here's an example of an ``EventPage`` with three views:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtail.wagtailcore.models import Page
    from wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models import RoutablePageMixin, route


    class EventPage(RoutablePageMixin, Page):
        ...

        @route(r'^$')
        def current_events(self, request):
            """
            View function for the current events page
            """
            ...

        @route(r'^past/$')
        def past_events(self, request):
            """
            View function for the past events page
            """
            ...

        # Multiple routes!
        @route(r'^year/(\d+)/$')
        @route(r'^year/current/$')
        def events_for_year(self, request, year=None):
            """
            View function for the events for year page
            """
            ...

Reversing URLs
==============

:class:`~models.RoutablePageMixin` adds a :meth:`~models.RoutablePageMixin.reverse_subpage` method to your page model which you can use for reversing URLs. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    # The URL name defaults to the view method name.
    >>> event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    'year/2015/'

This method only returns the part of the URL within the page. To get the full URL, you must append it to the values of either the :attr:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page.url` or the :attr:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page.full_url` attribute on your page:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> event_page.url + event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    '/events/year/2015/'

    >>> event_page.full_url + event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    'http://example.com/events/year/2015/'

Changing route names
--------------------

The route name defaults to the name of the view. You can override this name with the ``name`` keyword argument on ``@route``:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtail.wagtailcore.models import Page
    from wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models import RoutablePageMixin, route


    class EventPage(RoutablePageMixin, Page):
        ...

        @route(r'^year/(\d+)/$', name='year')
        def events_for_year(self, request, year):
            """
            View function for the events for year page
            """
            ...

.. code-block:: python

    >>> event_page.reverse_subpage('year', args=(2015, ))
    '/events/year/2015/'

The ``RoutablePageMixin`` class
===============================

.. automodule:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models
.. autoclass:: RoutablePageMixin

    .. automethod:: get_subpage_urls

    .. automethod:: resolve_subpage

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            view, args, kwargs = page.resolve_subpage('/past/')
            response = view(request, *args, **kwargs)

    .. automethod:: reverse_subpage

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            url = page.url + page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', kwargs={'year': '2014'})


 .. _routablepageurl_template_tag:

The ``routablepageurl`` template tag
====================================

.. currentmodule:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.templatetags.wagtailroutablepage_tags
.. autofunction:: routablepageurl

    Example:

    .. code-block:: html+django

        {% load wagtailroutablepage_tags %}

        {% routablepageurl page "feed" %}
        {% routablepageurl page "archive" 2014 08 14 %}
        {% routablepageurl page "food" foo="bar" baz="quux" %}

Commit message:

Add documentation note on using serve_preview() with RoutablePageMixin

docs/reference/contrib/routablepage.rst, after:

.. _routable_page_mixin:

=====================
``RoutablePageMixin``
=====================

.. module:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage

The ``RoutablePageMixin`` mixin provides a convenient way for a page to respond on multiple sub-URLs with different views. For example, a blog section on a site might provide several different types of index page at URLs like ``/blog/2013/06/``, ``/blog/authors/bob/``, ``/blog/tagged/python/``, all served by the same page instance.

A ``Page`` using ``RoutablePageMixin`` exists within the page tree like any other page, but URL paths underneath it are checked against a list of patterns. If none of the patterns match, control is passed to subpages as usual (or failing that, a 404 error is thrown).


The basics
==========

To use ``RoutablePageMixin``, you need to make your class inherit from both :class:`wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models.RoutablePageMixin` and :class:`wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page`, then define some view methods and decorate them with ``wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models.route``.

Here's an example of an ``EventPage`` with three views:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtail.wagtailcore.models import Page
    from wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models import RoutablePageMixin, route


    class EventPage(RoutablePageMixin, Page):
        ...

        @route(r'^$')
        def current_events(self, request):
            """
            View function for the current events page
            """
            ...

        @route(r'^past/$')
        def past_events(self, request):
            """
            View function for the past events page
            """
            ...

        # Multiple routes!
        @route(r'^year/(\d+)/$')
        @route(r'^year/current/$')
        def events_for_year(self, request, year=None):
            """
            View function for the events for year page
            """
            ...

When custom routes are defined, they can only be calculated from within the context of the page being served. When using the "Preview" function in the Wagtail admin, the normal context is not available. If you add custom routes and find that the Preview is broken, add a `serve_preview` method to your model:

.. code-block:: python

    def serve_preview(self, request, mode_name):
        return self.serve(request)

Reversing URLs
==============

:class:`~models.RoutablePageMixin` adds a :meth:`~models.RoutablePageMixin.reverse_subpage` method to your page model which you can use for reversing URLs. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    # The URL name defaults to the view method name.
    >>> event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    'year/2015/'

This method only returns the part of the URL within the page. To get the full URL, you must append it to the values of either the :attr:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page.url` or the :attr:`~wagtail.wagtailcore.models.Page.full_url` attribute on your page:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> event_page.url + event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    '/events/year/2015/'

    >>> event_page.full_url + event_page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', args=(2015, ))
    'http://example.com/events/year/2015/'

Changing route names
--------------------

The route name defaults to the name of the view. You can override this name with the ``name`` keyword argument on ``@route``:

.. code-block:: python

    from wagtail.wagtailcore.models import Page
    from wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models import RoutablePageMixin, route


    class EventPage(RoutablePageMixin, Page):
        ...

        @route(r'^year/(\d+)/$', name='year')
        def events_for_year(self, request, year):
            """
            View function for the events for year page
            """
            ...

.. code-block:: python

    >>> event_page.reverse_subpage('year', args=(2015, ))
    '/events/year/2015/'

The ``RoutablePageMixin`` class
===============================

.. automodule:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models
.. autoclass:: RoutablePageMixin

    .. automethod:: get_subpage_urls

    .. automethod:: resolve_subpage

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            view, args, kwargs = page.resolve_subpage('/past/')
            response = view(request, *args, **kwargs)

    .. automethod:: reverse_subpage

        Example:

        .. code-block:: python

            url = page.url + page.reverse_subpage('events_for_year', kwargs={'year': '2014'})


 .. _routablepageurl_template_tag:

The ``routablepageurl`` template tag
====================================

.. currentmodule:: wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.templatetags.wagtailroutablepage_tags
.. autofunction:: routablepageurl

    Example:

    .. code-block:: html+django

        {% load wagtailroutablepage_tags %}

        {% routablepageurl page "feed" %}
        {% routablepageurl page "archive" 2014 08 14 %}
        {% routablepageurl page "food" foo="bar" baz="quux" %}
