=========================
Wagtail 0.6 release notes
=========================

*September 11, 2014*

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new
==========

Project template and start project command
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wagtail now has a basic project template built in to make starting new projects much easier.

To use it, install ``wagtail`` onto your machine and run ``wagtail start project_name``.

Django 1.7 support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wagtail can now be used with Django 1.7.


Minor features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
* A new template tag has been added for reversing URLs inside routable pages. See :ref:`routablepageurl_template_tag`.
* RoutablePage can now be used as a mixin. See :class:`wagtail.contrib.wagtailroutablepage.models.RoutablePageMixin`.
* MenuItems can now have bundled JavaScript
* Added the ``register_admin_menu_item`` hook for registering menu items at startup. See :ref:`admin_hooks`
* Added a version indicator into the admin interface (hover over the wagtail to see it)
* Added Russian translation


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* Page URL generation now returns correct URLs for sites that have the main 'serve' view rooted somewhere other than '/'.
* Search results in the page chooser now respect the page_type parameter on PageChooserPanel.
* Rendition filenames are now prevented from going over 60 chars, even with a large focal_point_key.
* Child relations that are defined on a model's superclass (such as the base Page model) are now picked up correctly by the page editing form, page copy operations and the replace_text management command.
* Tags on images and documents are now committed to the search index immediately on saving.


Upgrade considerations
======================

All features deprecated in 0.4 have been removed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See: :ref:`04_deprecated_features`


Search signal handlers have been moved
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have an import in your ``urls.py`` file like ``from wagtail.wagtailsearch import register_signal_handlers``, this must now be changed to ``from wagtail.wagtailsearch.signal_handlers import register_signal_handlers``


Deprecated features
===================

* The ``wagtail.wagtailsearch.indexed`` module has been renamed to ``wagtail.wagtailsearch.index``

