==========================================
Wagtail 0.9 release notes - IN DEVELOPMENT
==========================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new
==========

Minor features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 * Javascript includes in the admin backend have been moved to the HTML header, to accommodate form widgets that render inline scripts that depend on libraries such as jQuery
 * Improvements to the layout of the admin menu footer.
 * Added thousands separator for counters on dashboard
 * Added contextual links to admin notification messages
 * When copying pages, it is now possible to specify a place to copy to
 * ``FieldPanel`` now accepts an optional ``widget`` parameter to override the field's default form widget
 * Dropped Django 1.6 support
 * Dropped Python 2.6 and 3.2 support
 * Dropped Elasticsearch 0.90.x support
 * Search view accepts "page" GET parameter in line with pagination
 * Remove dependency on `LOGIN_URL` and `LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL` settings
 * Password reset view names namespaced to wagtailadmin
 * Remove the need to add permission check on admin views (now automated)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

* Wagtail no longer reverse Django login view to Wagtail login view (making it easier to have front end views)

Upgrade considerations
======================

Support for older Django/Python/Elasticsearch versions dropped
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This release drops support for Django 1.6, Python 2.6/3.2 and Elasticsearch 0.90.x. Please make sure these are updated before upgrading.

If you are upgrading from Elasticsearch 0.90.x, you may also need to update the ``elasticsearch`` pip package to a version greater than ``1.0`` as well.

Login/Password reset views renamed
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It was previously possible to reverse the Wagtail login using django.contrib.auth.views.login.
This is no longer possible. Update any references to `wagtailadmin_login`.

Password reset view name has changed from `password_reset` to `wagtailadmin_password_reset`.

You no longer need `LOGIN_URL` and `LOGIN_REDIRECT_URL` to point to Wagtail admin.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Javascript includes in admin backend have been moved
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To improve compatibility with third-party form widgets, pages within the Wagtail admin backend now output their Javascript includes in the HTML header, rather than at the end of the page. If your project extends the admin backend (through the ``register_admin_menu_item`` hook, for example) you will need to ensure that all associated Javascript code runs correctly from the new location. In particular, any code that accesses HTML elements will need to be contained in an 'onload' handler (e.g. jQuery's ``$(document).ready()``).
