==========================================
Wagtail 2.9 release notes - IN DEVELOPMENT
==========================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1


What's new
==========


Other features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 * Skip page validation when unpublishing a page (Samir Shah)
 * Added :ref:`streamfield_multiplechoiceblock` block type for StreamField (James O'Toole)
 * ChoiceBlock now accepts a ``widget`` keyword argument (James O'Toole)
 * Reduced contrast of rich text toolbar (Jack Paine)
 * Support the rel attribute on custom ModelAdmin buttons (Andy Chosak)
 * Server-side page slug generation now respects ``WAGTAIL_ALLOW_UNICODE_SLUGS`` (Arkadiusz Michał Ryś)
 * Wagtail admin no longer depends on SiteMiddleware, avoiding incompatibility with Django sites framework and redundant database queries (aritas1, timmysmalls, Matt Westcott)
 * Tag field autocompletion now handles custom tag models (Matt Westcott)
 * ``wagtail_serve`` URL route can now be omitted for headless sites (Storm Heg)


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

 * Added ARIA alert role to live search forms in the admin (Casper Timmers)
 * Reordered login form elements to match expected tab order (Kjartan Sverrisson)
 * Re-added 'Close Explorer' button on mobile viewports (Sævar Öfjörð Magnússon)
 * Added a more descriptive label to Password reset link for screen reader users (Casper Timmers, Martin Coote)
 * Improved Wagtail logo contrast by adding a background (Brian Edelman, Simon Evans, Ben Enright)
 * Prevent duplicate notification messages on page locking (Jacob Topp-Mugglestone)
 * Rendering of non field errors for InlinePanel items (Storm Heg)

Upgrade considerations
======================

Removed support for Django 2.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Django 2.1 is no longer supported as of this release; please upgrade to Django 2.2 or above before upgrading Wagtail.


``SiteMiddleware`` and ``request.site`` deprecated
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Wagtail's :class:`~wagtail.core.middleware.SiteMiddleware`, which makes the current site object available as the property ``request.site``, is now deprecated as it clashes with Django's sites framework and makes unnecessary database queries on non-Wagtail views. References to ``request.site`` in your code should be removed; the recommended way of retrieving the current site is ``Site.find_for_request(request)`` in Python code, and the ``{% wagtail_site %}`` tag within Django templates. Once these are removed, ``'wagtail.core.middleware.SiteMiddleware'`` can be removed from your project's ``MIDDLEWARE`` setting.


Move to new configurable moderation system (workflow)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A new workflow system has been introduced for moderation. Task types are defined as models in code, and instances - tasks - are created in the Wagtail Admin,
then chained together to form workflows: sequences of moderation stages through which a page must pass prior to publication.

Key points:

* Prior to 2.9, moderation in Wagtail was performed on a per-revision basis. It is now per page.
* ``PageRevision.submitted_for_moderation`` will return ``True`` for revisions passing through the old moderation system, but not for the new system
* Pages undergoing moderation in the old system will not have their moderation halted, and can still be approved/rejected. As a result, you may see
  two sets of moderation dashboard panels until there are no longer any pages in moderation in the old system
* No pages can be submitted for moderation in the old system: "Submit for moderation" now submits to the new Workflow system
* You no longer need the publish permission to perform moderation actions on a page - actions available to each user are now configured per task. 
  With the built in ``GroupApprovalTask``, anybody in a specific set of groups can approve or reject the task.
* A data migration is provided to recreate your existing publish-permission based moderation workflow in the new system. If you have made no permissions changes,
  this should simply create a task approvable by anybody in the `Moderators` group, and assign a workflow with this task to the root page, creating a standard workflow
  for the entire page tree. However, if you have a complex nested set of publish page permissions, the created set of workflows will be more complex as well - you may wish to
  inspect the created workflows and tasks in the new ``Settings/Workflows`` admin area and potentially simplify them.
  See :ref:`managing_workflows` for the administrator guide.
