# Wagtail 5.0 release notes - IN DEVELOPMENT

_Unreleased_

```{contents}
---
local:
depth: 1
---
```

## What's new

### ...

### Other features

 * Add `WAGTAILIMAGES_EXTENSIONS` setting to restrict image uploads to specific file types (Aman Pandey, Ananjan-R)
 * Update user list column level to `Access level` to be easier to understand (Vallabh Tiwari)
 * Migrate `.button-longrunning` behaviour to a Stimulus controller with support for custom label element & duration (Loveth Omokaro)
 * Implement new simplified userbar designs (Albina Starykova)
 * Add more Axe rules to the accessibility checker (Albina Starykova)
 * Add usage view for pages (Sage Abdullah)

### Bug fixes

 * Ensure `label_format` on StructBlock gracefully handles missing variables (Aadi jindal)
 * Adopt a no-JavaScript and more accessible solution for the 'Reset to default' switch to Gravatar when editing user profile (Loveth Omokaro)
 * Ensure `Site.get_site_root_paths` works on cache backends that do not preserve Python objects (Jaap Roes)
 * Ignore right clicks on side panel resizer (Sage Abdullah)
 * Resize in the correct direction for RTL languages with the side panel resizer (Sage Abdullah)
 * Fix image uploads on storage backends that require file pointer to be at the start of the file (Matt Westcott)
 * Fix "Edit this page" missing from userbar (Satvik Vashisht)
 * No longer allow invalid duplicate site hostname creation as hostnames and domain names are a case insensitive (Coen van der Kamp)
 * Image and Document multiple upload update forms now correctly use the progress button (longrunning) behaviour when clicked (Loveth Omokaro)

### Documentation

 * Add code block to make it easier to understand contribution docs (Suyash Singh)
 * Add new "Icons" page for icons customisation and reuse across the admin interface (Coen van der Kamp)
 * Fix broken formatting for MultiFieldPanel / FieldRowPanel permission kwarg docs (Matt Westcott)
 * Add helpful troubleshooting links and refine wording for getting started with development (Loveth Omokaro)
 * Ensure search autocomplete overlay on mobile does not overflow the viewport (Ayman Makroo)
 * Improve documentation for InlinePanel (Vallabh Tiwari)

### Maintenance

 * Removed features deprecated in Wagtail 3.0 and 4.0 (Matt Westcott)
 * Update djhtml (html formatting) library to v 1.5.2 (Loveth Omokaro)
 * Re-enable `strictPropertyInitialization` in tsconfig (Thibaud Colas)
 * Refactor accessibility checker userbar item (Albina Starykova)
 * Removed unused `Page.get_static_site_paths` method (Yosr Karoui)
 * Provisional Django 5.0 compatibility fixes (Sage Abdullah)
 * Add unit tests for `CollapseAll` and `MinimapItem` components (Albina Starykova)
 * Code quality fixes (GLEF1X)
 * Refactor image / document / snippet usage views into a shared generic view (Sage Abdullah)
 * Rename the Stimulus `AutoFieldController` to the less confusing `SubmitController` (Loveth Omokaro)
 * Replace `script` tags with `template` tag for image/document bulk uploads (Rishabh Kumar Bahukhandi)

## Upgrade considerations

### Removal of deprecated features

The following features deprecated in Wagtail 3.0 have been fully removed. See [Wagtail 3.0 release notes](/releases/3.0) for details on these changes, including how to remove usage of these features:

* The modules `wagtail.core`, `wagtail.tests`, `wagtail.admin.edit_handlers` and `wagtail.contrib.forms.edit_handlers` are removed.
* The field panel classes `StreamFieldPanel`, `RichTextFieldPanel`, `ImageChooserPanel`, `DocumentChooserPanel` and `SnippetChooserPanel` are removed.
* StreamField definitions must include `use_json_field=True` (with the exception of migrations created prior to Wagtail 5.0).
* The `BASE_URL` setting is no longer recognised.
* The `ModelAdmin.get_form_fields_exclude` method is no longer passed a `request` argument.
* The `ModelAdmin.get_edit_handler` method is no longer passed a `request` or `instance` argument.
* The `widget_overrides`, `required_fields`, `required_formsets`, `bind_to`, `render_as_object` and `render_as_field` methods on `Panel` (previously `EditHandler`) are removed.

The following features deprecated in Wagtail 4.0 have been fully removed. See [Wagtail 4.0 release notes](/releases/4.0) for details on these changes, including how to remove usage of these features:

* The `wagtail.contrib.settings.models.BaseSetting` class is removed.
* The `Page.get_latest_revision_as_page` method is removed.
* The `page` and `page_id` properties and `as_page_object` method on `Revision` are removed.
* The JavaScript functions `createPageChooser`, `createSnippetChooser`, `createDocumentChooser` and `createImageChooser` are removed.
* The `wagtail.contrib.modeladmin.menus.SubMenu` class is removed.
* Subclasses of `wagtail.contrib.modeladmin.helpers.AdminURLHelper` are now required to accept a `base_url_path` keyword argument on the constructor.
* The `wagtail.admin.widgets.chooser.AdminChooser` class is removed.
* The `wagtail.snippets.views.snippets.get_snippet_edit_handler` function is removed.

### `Page.get_static_site_paths` method removed

The undocumented `Page.get_static_site_paths` method (which returns a generator of URL paths for use by static site generator packages) has been removed. Packages relying on this functionality should provide their own fallback implementation.

### Progress button (`button-longrunning`) now implemented with Stimulus

The `button-longrunning` class usage has been updated to use the newly adopted Stimulus approach, the previous data attributes will be deprecated in a future release.

If using the old approach, ensure any HTML templates are updated to the new approach before the next major release.

#### Old syntax

```html+django
<button type="submit" class="button action-save button-longrunning" data-clicked-text="{% trans 'Creating…' %}">
  {% icon name="spinner" %}
  <em>{% trans 'Create' %}</em>
</button>
```

#### New syntax

Minimum required attributes are `data-controller` and a `data-action`.

```html+django
<button type="submit" class="button action-save button-longrunning" data-controller="w-progress" data-action="w-progress#activate" data-w-progress-active-value="{% trans 'Creating…' %}">
  {% icon name="spinner" %}
  <em data-w-progress-target="label">{% trans 'Create' %}</em>
</button>
```

#### Examples of additional capabilities

Stimulus [targets](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/reference/targets) and [actions](https://stimulus.hotwired.dev/reference/actions) can be leveraged to revise the behaviour via data attributes.

* `<button ... data-w-progress-duration-value="500" ...>` - custom duration can be declared on the element
* `<button ... class="custom-button" data-w-progress-active-class="custom-button--busy" ...>` - custom 'active' class to replace the default `button-longrunning-active` (must be a single string without spaces)
* `<button ... ><strong data-w-progress-target="label">{% trans 'Create' %}</strong></button>` - any element can be the button label (not just `em`)
* `<button ... data-action="w-progress#activate focus->w-progress#activate" ...>` - any event can be used to trigger the in progress behaviour
* `<button ... data-action="w-progress#activate:once" ...>` - only trigger the progress behaviour once
* `<button ... data-action="readystatechange@document->w-progress#activate:once" data-w-progress-duration-value="5000" disabled ...>` - disabled on load (once JS starts) and becomes enabled after 5s duration
