# Wagtail 6.3 release notes - IN DEVELOPMENT

_Unreleased_

```{contents}
---
local:
depth: 1
---
```

## What's new

### Other features

 * Redirect to the last viewed listing page after deleting form submissions (Matthias Brück)
 * Provide `getTextLabel` method on date / time StreamField blocks (Vaughn Dickson)
 * Purge frontend cache when modifying redirects (Jake Howard)

### Bug fixes

 * Prevent page type business rules from blocking reordering of pages (Andy Babic, Sage Abdullah)

### Documentation

 * Upgrade Sphinx to 7.3 (Matt Westcott)
 * Document how to customise date/time format settings (Vince Salvino)


### Maintenance

 * Removed support for Python 3.8 (Matt Westcott)
 * Drop pytz dependency in favour of `zoneinfo.available_timezones` (Sage Abdullah)


## Upgrade considerations - changes affecting all projects

## Upgrade considerations - deprecation of old functionality

### Removed support for Python 3.8

Python 3.8 is no longer supported as of this release; please upgrade to Python 3.9 or above before upgrading Wagtail.

## Upgrade considerations - changes affecting Wagtail customisations

### Deprecation of `PageListingButton` support inside dropdown buttons

Using the `wagtail.admin.widgets.PageListingButton` class in the `register_page_listing_more_buttons` or `register_page_header_buttons` hooks is now deprecated. Instead, use the `PageButton` or `Button` class to render buttons in the dropdown menu. When the support is removed in a future release, the button may not be rendered correctly.

This only affects the usage of `PageListingButton` inside dropdown buttons. Usage of the `PageListingButton` class for the top-level `register_page_listing_buttons` hook is still supported.

## Upgrade considerations - changes to undocumented internals

### Deprecation of `ListingButton` support inside dropdown buttons

Using the `wagtail.admin.widgets.ListingButton` class in the following ways is now deprecated:

- `register_user_listing_buttons` hook
- `register_snippet_listing_buttons` hook
- `IndexView.get_list_more_buttons()`
- `IndexView.header_more_buttons` / `IndexView.get_header_more_buttons()`

This only affects usages of the undocumented `ListingButton` class. If you use the `SnippetListingButton` or `UserListingButton` classes as shown in the hooks' examples, no action is required. Using `ListingButton` in `IndexView.get_list_buttons()` is still supported.

Instead of the `ListingButton` class, use the `Button` class to render buttons in the dropdown menu. When the support for `ListingButton` inside dropdowns is removed in a future release, the button may not be rendered correctly.
