# Wagtail 7.0.7 release notes

_May 5, 2026_

```{contents}
---
local:
depth: 1
---
```

## What's new

### Security fix: Improper permission handling when comparing revisions

A CMS user without the ability to edit a page could access revisions of the page through the revision compare view if they knew the primary key of two revisions. This could potentially result in disclosure of sensitive information.

Many thanks to Seoyoung Kang from AhnLab for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [security advisory GHSA-c6wj-9vcj-75pj](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-c6wj-9vcj-75pj).

### Security fix: Improper permission handling when viewing page history

A CMS user without the ability to edit a page could still access the history report for the page, potentially resulting in disclosure of sensitive information.

Many thanks to Seoyoung Kang from AhnLab for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [security advisory GHSA-c4mr-889m-vgf6](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-c4mr-889m-vgf6).

### Security fix: Improper permission handling when deleting form submissions

A CMS user with limited access to form pages could delete submissions to form pages they don't have access to by crafting a form submission to delete submissions on a page they do have access to for submissions they don't. The vulnerability is not exploitable by an ordinary site visitor without access to the Wagtail admin.

Many thanks to Vishal Shukla for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [security advisory GHSA-pwm3-7fv4-g6xx](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-pwm3-7fv4-g6xx).

### Security fix: Improper restriction handling on Documents and Images API

The Documents and Images API incorrectly listed items in private collections. A user with access to the API could see the filename and name of documents and images in private collections.

Many thanks to Sanjok Karki for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [security advisory GHSA-p5gm-92h4-6pv6](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-p5gm-92h4-6pv6).

### Security fix: Improper permission handling when copying pages

A CMS user with limited access to pages could copy a page they don't have access to to an area of the site they do. Once coped, they'd be able to view its contents, and potentially publish it. Permissions were correctly checked for the copy destination, but not for the source page.

Many thanks to Sanjok Karki for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [security advisory GHSA-67rv-mg8q-5pf3](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-67rv-mg8q-5pf3).

### Bug fixes

 * Index the contents of image descriptions as well as titles, for CMS search (Advik Sharma)
 * Correctly escape the `sizes` attribute in responsive image template tags (Jake Howard)
 * Add accessible label to userbar aside element for accessibility (Kalash Kumari Thakur)
