# Wagtail 7.3.1 release notes

_March 3, 2026_

```{contents}
---
local:
depth: 1
---
```

## What's new

### CVE-2026-28222: Improper escaping of HTML (Cross-site Scripting) on TableBlock class attributes

This release addresses a stored cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability on rendering `TableBlock` blocks within a StreamField. A user with access to create or edit pages containing `TableBlock` StreamField blocks is able to set specially-crafted `class` attributes on the block which run arbitrary JavaScript code when the page is viewed. When viewed by a user with higher privileges, this could lead to performing actions with that user's credentials. The vulnerability is not exploitable by an ordinary site visitor without access to the Wagtail admin, and only affects sites using TableBlock.

Many thanks to Guan Chenxian for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [the CVE-2026-28222 security advisory](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-p5cm-246w-84jm).

### CVE-2026-28223: Improper escaping of HTML (Cross-site Scripting) in simple_translation admin interface

This release addresses a stored cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerability on confirmation messages within the `wagtail.contrib.simple_translation` module. A user with access to the Wagtail admin area may create a page with a specially-crafted title which, when another user performs the "Translate" action, causes arbitrary JavaScript code to run. This could lead to performing actions with that user's credentials. The vulnerability is not exploitable by an ordinary site visitor without access to the Wagtail admin.

Many thanks to Guan Chenxian for reporting this issue. For further details, please see [the CVE-2026-28223 security advisory](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/security/advisories/GHSA-p4v8-rw59-93cq).

### Bug fixes

 * Update dependencies to allow django-modelsearch 1.2 and django-tasks 0.11
 * Fix duplicate inline panel items when editing snippets with autosave enabled (Sage Abdullah)
 * Prevent dropdowns from closing after a successful autosave (Sage Abdullah)
 * Show placeholder image icons when image upload previews fail (Collins Kubu)
 * Ensure that 'create' form within choosers is not hidden on validation errors (Ankit Chaudhary)

### Maintenance

 * Update semgrep to 1.150.0 (Pravin Kamble)

## Upgrade considerations

### HTML escaping of `django.contrib.messages` notification messages

Notification messages created through the `django.contrib.messages` module are now escaped according to [Django's automatic HTML escaping mechanism](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/templates/language/#automatic-html-escaping) when displayed within the Wagtail admin area. In most cases this is desirable to prevent cross-site scripting attacks; however, if your project makes intentional use of HTML markup within notification messages, this must now be passed as a [safe string](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/utils/#module-django.utils.safestring), through the use of a function such as [`format_html`](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/ref/utils/#django.utils.html.format_html).
